Simplify getting started (#2340)
flyteorg/flyte: rsts/getting_started/index.rst

.. _getting-started:

################
Getting Started
################

Requirements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Make sure you have `Docker <https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/>`__ and Docker Daemon is running.

Installation
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Install Flyte's python SDK — `Flytekit <https://pypi.org/project/flytekit/>`__.

.. prompt:: bash

  pip install flytekit

Example
^^^^^^^^

Create It
""""""""""

Copy the following code to a file named ``example.py``

.. code-block:: python

    import typing
    import pandas as pd
    import numpy as np

    from flytekit import task, workflow

    @task
    def generate_normal_df(n:int, mean: float, sigma: float) -> pd.DataFrame:
        return pd.DataFrame(dict(
          numbers=np.random.normal(mean, sigma,size=n),
        ))

    @task
    def compute_stats(df: pd.DataFrame) -> typing.Tuple[float, float]:
        return df["numbers"].mean(), df["numbers"].std()

    @workflow
    def wf(n: int = 200, mean: float = 0.0, sigma: float = 1.0) -> typing.Tuple[float, float]:
        return compute_stats(df=generate_normal_df(n=n, mean=mean, sigma=sigma))

Run It
^^^^^^^

> You can either execute the code in python environment or on a remote cluster. We will show how to run on a demo local cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can run the workflows in `example.py` on a local python environment or a Flyte cluster. In this guide, you'll learn how to run a demo local cluster.
```

Distinguish between local python environment (using bundled docker image) and running on a Flyte cluster (which can either be local or remote)

> Locally
> """"""""

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Executing Locally
"""""""""""""""""""
```

> Run your workflow locally using ``pyflyte``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run your workflow locally using ``pyflyte``, which is the CLI that ships with ``flytekit``.
```

.. prompt:: bash $

  pyflyte run example.py:wf --n 500 --mean 42 --sigma 2

> *This uses the default image bundled with flytekit, which contains numpy, pandas, flytekit, you can optionally pass a different image*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note::
   This uses the default image bundled with flytekit, which contains numpy, pandas, flytekit.
   You can also pass in your own image using the ``--image`` flag.
```

.. tip:: This is just Python code also, you can also simply execute the workflow as a python function -> ``wf()``.

> On a Flyte cluster
> """""""""""""""""""

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Executing on a Flyte Cluster
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
```

> Install :std:ref:`flytectl`. ``Flytectl`` is a commandline interface for Flyte. This is useful to start a local demo cluster of Flyte.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install :std:ref:`flytectl`, which is the command-line interface for Flyte. Let's use it to start a local demo Flyte cluster.
```

.. tabbed:: OSX

  .. prompt:: bash $

    brew install flyteorg/homebrew-tap/flytectl

.. tabbed:: Other Operating systems

  .. prompt:: bash $

    curl -sL https://ctl.flyte.org/install | sudo bash -s -- -b /usr/local/bin # You can change path from /usr/local/bin to any file system path
    export PATH=$(pwd)/bin:$PATH # Only required if user used different path then /usr/local/bin

> * Start a Flyte demonstration environment on your local machine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start a Flyte demonstration environment on your local machine:
```

.. prompt:: bash $

  flytectl demo start

> * Now run the same workflow on the Flyte backend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then run the same workflow on the Flyte cluster:
```

.. prompt:: bash $

  pyflyte run --remote example.py:wf --n 500 --mean 42 --sigma 2

.. note:: The only difference between previous ``local`` and this command is the ``--remote`` flag. This will trigger an execution on the configured backend.

Check It
^^^^^^^^^

> Navigate to the url produced as the result of running ``pyflyte``, this should take you to Flyte Console, the web UI used to manage Flyte entities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to the url produced as the result of running ``pyflyte``. This should take you to Flyte Console, the web UI used to manage Flyte entities such as tasks, workflows, and executions.
```

.. _getting-started:

################
Getting Started
################

Requirements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Make sure you have `Docker <https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/>`__ and Docker Daemon is running.

Installation
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Install Flyte's python SDK — `Flytekit <https://pypi.org/project/flytekit/>`__.

.. prompt:: bash

  pip install flytekit

Example
^^^^^^^^

Create It
""""""""""

> * Copy the following code to a file named ``example.py``

Author: Using a '*' means creating an unordered list, right? Items containing a single item look odd: https://flyte--2340.org.readthedocs.build/en/2340/getting_started/index.html.

.. code-block:: python

    import typing
    import pandas as pd
    import numpy as np

    from flytekit import task, workflow

    @task
    def generate_normal_df(n:int, mean: float, sigma: float) -> pd.DataFrame:
        return pd.DataFrame(dict(
          numbers=np.random.normal(mean, sigma,size=n),
        ))

    @task
    def compute_stats(df: pd.DataFrame) -> typing.Tuple[float, float]:
        return df["numbers"].mean(), df["numbers"].std()

    @workflow
    def wf(n: int = 200, mean: float = 0.0, sigma: float = 1.0) -> typing.Tuple[float, float]:
        return compute_stats(df=generate_normal_df(n=n, mean=mean, sigma=sigma))

Run It
^^^^^^^

> You can either execute the code in python environment or on a remote cluster. We will show how to run on a demo local cluster

Author: Add a period to the end of this paragraph.

""""""""

* Run your workflow locally using ``pyflyte``:

.. prompt:: bash $

  pyflyte run example.py:wf --n 500 --mean 42 --sigma 2

*This uses the default image bundled with flytekit, which contains numpy, pandas, flytekit, you can optionally pass a different image*

.. tip:: This is just Python code also, you can also simply execute the workflow as a python function -> ``wf()``.

On a Flyte cluster
"""""""""""""""""""

Install :std:ref:`flytectl`. ``Flytectl`` is a commandline interface for Flyte. This is useful to start a local demo cluster of Flyte.

.. tabbed:: OSX

  .. prompt:: bash $

    brew install flyteorg/homebrew-tap/flytectl

.. tabbed:: Other Operating systems

  .. prompt:: bash $

    curl -sL https://ctl.flyte.org/install | sudo bash -s -- -b /usr/local/bin # You can change path from /usr/local/bin to any file system path
    export PATH=$(pwd)/bin:$PATH # Only required if user used different path then /usr/local/bin

* Start a Flyte demonstration environment on your local machine

.. prompt:: bash $

  flytectl demo start

* Now run the same workflow on the Flyte backend

.. prompt:: bash $

  pyflyte run --remote example.py:wf --n 500 --mean 42 --sigma 2

> .. note:: The only difference between previous ``local`` and this command is the ``--remote`` flag. This will trigger an execute on the configured backend

Author: "trigger an execution", right?

.. _getting-started:

################
Getting Started
################

Requirements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Make sure you have `Docker <https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/>`__ and Docker Daemon is running.

Installation
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Install `Flytekit <https://pypi.org/project/flytekit/>`__, Flyte's python SDK.

.. prompt:: bash

  pip install flytekit

Example Script: Computing Descriptive Statistics
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Let's create a simple Flyte workflow involving two steps:
> 1. Generate a dataset of ``numbers`` drawn from a normal distribution.
> 2. Compute the mean and standard deviation the ``numbers`` data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's create a simple Flyte workflow involving two steps:

1. Generate a dataset of ``numbers`` drawn from a normal distribution.
2. Compute the mean and standard deviation the ``numbers`` data.
```

Create It
"""""""""

Copy the following code to a file named ``example.py``

.. code-block:: python

    import typing
    import pandas as pd
    import numpy as np

    from flytekit import task, workflow

    @task
    def generate_normal_df(n:int, mean: float, sigma: float) -> pd.DataFrame:
        return pd.DataFrame({
            "numbers": np.random.normal(mean, sigma,size=n),
        })

    @task
    def compute_stats(df: pd.DataFrame) -> typing.Tuple[float, float]:
        return float(df["numbers"].mean()), float(df["numbers"].std())

    @workflow
    def wf(n: int = 200, mean: float = 0.0, sigma: float = 1.0) -> typing.Tuple[float, float]:
        return compute_stats(df=generate_normal_df(n=n, mean=mean, sigma=sigma))

Running Flyte Workflows
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
You can run the workflows in ``example.py`` on a local python environment or a Flyte cluster. In this guide, you'll learn how to run a demo local cluster.

Executing Locally
"""""""""""""""""""

Run your workflow locally using ``pyflyte``, which is the CLI that ships with ``flytekit``.

.. prompt:: bash $

  pyflyte run example.py:wf --n 500 --mean 42 --sigma 2

> .. note::

Reviewer 2: this should be moved lower to after the `--remote` run

Executing on a Flyte Cluster
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Install :std:ref:`flytectl`, which is the command-line interface for Flyte. Let's use it to start a local demo Flyte cluster.

.. tabbed:: OSX

  .. prompt:: bash $

    brew install flyteorg/homebrew-tap/flytectl

.. tabbed:: Other Operating systems

  .. prompt:: bash $

    curl -sL https://ctl.flyte.org/install | sudo bash -s -- -b /usr/local/bin # You can change path from /usr/local/bin to any file system path
    export PATH=$(pwd)/bin:$PATH # Only required if user used different path then /usr/local/bin

Start a Flyte demonstration environment on your local machine:

.. prompt:: bash $

  flytectl demo start

.. dropdown:: :fa:`info-circle` What is a flyte demo environment?
    :animate: fade-in-slide-down

    Flyte demo environment is a fully included testing environment that can be run on your local machine. It is not a substitute for production environment
    but is great to try out the platform and check out some of the capabilities. Most plugins are not directly installed in this environment and it is not really

>     a great way to test the performance of the platform.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    a great way to test the platform's performance.
```

Then run the same workflow on the Flyte cluster:

.. prompt:: bash $

  pyflyte run --remote example.py:wf --n 500 --mean 42 --sigma 2

.. dropdown:: :fa:`info-circle` What does the ``--remote`` flag do?
    :animate: fade-in-slide-down

>    * The only difference between previous ``local`` and this command is the ``--remote`` flag. This will trigger an execution on the configured backend.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * The only difference between the previous ``local`` and this command is the ``--remote`` flag. This will trigger the execution on the configured backend.
```

   * Dependency management is a challenge with python projects. Flyte uses containers to manage dependencies for your project.

>    * ``pyflyte run --remote`` uses a default image bundled with flytekit, which contains numpy, pandas, flytekit and matches your current python (major, minor) version

Reviewer 3: Is this supposed to be -  Flytekit, NumPy, Pandas, Python?

>    * ``pyflyte run --remote`` uses a default image bundled with flytekit, which contains numpy, pandas, flytekit and matches your current python (major, minor) version

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * ``pyflyte run --remote`` uses a default image bundled with flytekit, which contains numpy, pandas, and flytekit and matches your current python (major, minor) version.
```

>    * For cases in which you want to use a custom image, it is possible to pass a custom image using the ``--image`` flag.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * If you want to use a custom image, use the ``--image`` flag.
```

>    * Also it is possible to completely use an image that contains your code built-in - refer to package & register flow

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * Also, it is possible to use an image with your completely built-in code.  Refer to package & register flow.
```

Inspect the Results
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Navigate to the url produced as the result of running ``pyflyte``. This should take you to Flyte Console, the web UI used to manage Flyte entities such as tasks, workflows, and executions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Navigate to the URL produced as the result of running ``pyflyte``. This should take you to Flyte Console; the web UI used to manage Flyte entities such as tasks, workflows, and executions.
```

Recap
^^^^^^^^

> 🎉  Congratulations 🎉  To summarize, you have just:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
🎉  Congratulations 🎉  To summarize, you have:
```

.. _getting-started:

################
Getting Started
################

Prerequisites
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Make sure you have `Docker <https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/>`__ and Docker Daemon is running.

Install flytectl
""""""""""""""""

Install :std:ref:`flytectl`. ``Flytectl`` is a commandline interface for Flyte.

>    .. tabbed:: OSX

Reviewer 2: move to after local run, before remote run
